Big data generated by machines.
It's everywhere and there's a lot.
Do big planes require big data?
Absolutely!
Did you know that a Boeing 787 produces
half a terabyte of data
every time it flies?
Really, almost every part of
the plane updates both the flight and
the ground team about
its status constantly.
Where's all this data coming from?
This is an example of machine-generated
data coming from sensors.
If you look at all sources of big data,
machine data is the largest
source of big data.
Additionally, it is very complex.
In general, we call machines that provide
some type of sensing capability smart.
Have you ever wondered why you
call your cell phone a smartphone?
Because it gives you a way
to track many things,
including your geolocation, and
connect you to other things.
So what makes a smart device smart, smart?
Generally speaking, There are three
main properties of smart devices
based on what they do with sensors and
things they encapsulate.
They can connect to other devices or
networks, they can execute services and
collect data autonomously,
that means on their own, they have
some knowledge of the environment.
The widespread availability of the smart
devices and their interconnectivity
led to a new term being coined,
The Internet of Things.
Think of a world of smart devices at home,
in your car, in the office,
city, remote rural areas,
the sky, even the ocean,
all connected and all generating data.
Let's look at an example of a device
that has some of these things in it.
An activity tracker is a device or
application for monitoring and
tracking fitness-related metrics
such as distance walked or run,
calorie consumption, and in some cases,
heartbeat and quality of sleep.
What if everyone in New York City
wore an activity tracker?
What if everyone wore several?
I personally have three activity
trackers that I use on a daily basis.
One to track my sleep, another one
to track my physical activity, and
a third, my smartphone,
that goes everywhere with me.
So it is not that unusual to imagine that
this will be the case for many people.
As you have already heard from in
a previous lecture on personalized data,
such activity trackers
have enabled a new way
of doing patient intervention
via personalized medicine.
Similarly, the sensors in planes have
generated a new way of looking at
fleet management and flight safety.
As a summary,
machines collect data 24/7 via
their built-in sensors,
both at personal and industrial scales.
And thus, they are the largest
of all the big data sources.